Hello everybody and welcome back.
By the end of this lecture we're going to combine our stairs with our pyramid objects so we end up with
one mesh objects in total and we can test that by going over into edit mode we see the stairs are now
part of the overall pyramid mesh.
Let's go find out some more.
Okay so we'll start off with a default cube and we shall add another default mesh object into there.
Let's add in AUV sphere and move along the y axis.
So now we've got a sphere mesh object and a cube mesh object.
If we shift select the cube again so the sphere itself has the dark orange border and the cube itself
has the light orange.
We know that this is the active selected item.
So then if we go ahead to the object menu and go down to join which we can see the shortcut key for
is controlling J.
We can join them together.
Now notice in the outline there is no longer the sphere object.
There's just the cube object.
Now the main takeaway here is that it doesn't matter how many other objects you have and what their
names happen to be.
If we go ahead and shift select them with the active object being the last thing that's been selected
when we join them together in this case I'll use the shortcut key controlling J.
They all inherits the name of whatever the active object was when you joined them.
Now that seems pretty straightforward and now all of this is editable under one object.
However one of the things and caveats that can catch you out is that if modifiers are applied to those
objects they will lose them as well.
So this is one of those times where if you were joining to mesh objects together one had modifiers on
it you might want to apply those modifiers as you bring it together as one objects.
So let's do an example of that now let's get rid of everything in our scene and add in an eco sphere.
You could pick any other mesh objects you'd like.
Go to our modifiers tab and add an array under the space the mounts a little and have four in total.
Okay.
I'm going to add another objects into our scene.
I'm going to add a cylinder and just move it out of the way.
Now if I go ahead selecting this group here this array here and then shift selecting the cylinder.
Now we already know when we join this the sphere mesh data will become part of the cell and mesh objects
but watch will also happens to our array when we do that.
That's right.
It disappears and let's undo that for a second and let us select our cylinder with the cylinder selected.
We can do another array modifier but this time I'm going to have it go in the other direction and I'm
going to have it go one point five and for a count of two that's absolutely fine.
It's different now when we shift and select what will happen is not only will the sphere lose its modifier
but it will gain the modifier the one is joined.
So you not only have to be careful about losing information but also inheriting information in this
case modifiers that you don't necessarily want or need.
And this is one of the reasons perhaps keep them as separate mesh objects.
If you need them to maintain those modifiers because one of the things you might want to avoid is applying
lots of modifiers and then the only way of preserving these is to in fact keep the modifiers on them
and keep them as separate objects.
One of the other things that you can think about is are they truly separate objects or are they part
of one.
Now some of those questions will be answered by your use case.
So we were exporting this to a game engine.
You may actually be required to have as one object during your exports or you may find that you need
it as multiple objects especially if it's a dynamic thing that's going to fall apart.
There's lots of different options depending on what you need to achieve.
And it's worth being aware of the caveats when joining objects together because these are two different
things.
And in this case what I could do is apply the cylinder apply the IKO sphere.
Then when I go ahead and select and join them together they maintain their previous setup.
However with the disadvantage that we've lost those modifiers and with that in mind is time for your
challenge OK it's challenge time.
I'd like you to go ahead and join the stairs to the rest of the pyramid so that they are one mesh object
and there should only be one mesh object when you are finished.
When you've joined those stairs to the rest of the pyramid Paul's video now and give us a go Okay everybody
Welcome back.
Let's hop over into a blender and connect the stairs to our pyramid Okay everybody and welcome back.
So let's go ahead and just combine these two objects together we've got the stairs objects and the pyramid
object that we need to combine.
Of course we do need to make sure we apply our modifier first so let's go ahead and do that and then
we're going to go ahead and select tile pyramid and get control in J to join them together.
And then of course finally we can check that they're joined together if we go into edit mode we can
see that we can edit all of this mesh data together and if we check in the outline we can confirm there's
now only one mesh object called pyramid perfect set.
How are you guys getting on.
I hope you manage to join your stairs successfully to your pyramid and I'll see you all in the next
lecture.